Deathtrap Dungeon Help File

Deathtrap Dungeon is a text-based adventure game which takes place in a
fantasy world similar to earth. You are a young warrior who has entered
the 'Trial of Champions' , a test of strength , stamina and wit , which
takes place in a labyrinth that no one has ever come out of alive. This
help will explain  what goes on during the game  and also give you some
hints is you are struggling.

Equipment

To begin your adventure you have a sword and a backpack with provisions
of food  and  drink . You have been  training at your  swordmanship and
exercising to build up your strength. Your initial skills are generated
randomly as follows. (D6 means random number like a dice roll).

Skill   : D6 + 6
Stamina : D6 + D6 + 12
Luck    : D6 + 6

You  will learn later  that your skill , stamina and Luck scores change
during the game  but they will never  become greater than  your initial
scores which you have just recieved. There are rare occasions when this
is not true.


BATTLES

During  your  adventure  you will come across creatures which  you have
to fight or you do not wish to flee from. In this case you need to know
how  to  fight. Firstly you will be given the creature`s name and their
skill and stamina scores. Next  you will be given the different options
available  like  escaping or using a spell  which  you will  hear about
later.
The sequence of combat goes as follows:
    1 The computer  ` rolls two dice `  and  adds  the  values  to  the
      creature`s skill to create a value for the creature`s called it`s
      attack strength.
    2 The computer  does  this for  you as well  and so you  recieve an
      attack strength
    3 If your attack strength is higher than the creature`s you win and
      inflict a wound on  him . This means  the creature white looses 2
      stamina points. You may  use your luck to do additional damage as
      you will see later. If  the creature`s attack strength  is higher
      than yours  then  you are  wounded  and  have  2  stamina  points
      deducted.You may also use luck at this point which you will learn
      about later . This  sequence is repeated until  either you or the
      creature has  their stamina score  reduced  to 0 and  is  killed.

ESCAPING

Sometimes  you  may be given  the option  to flee . You would  use this
option normally if the battle is not going well . However if you choose
to run away , the creature  automatically  wounds you , so  you have  2
stamina points subtracted . You may not use your luck against the wound
if you want.

Fighting more than one creature

Depending on  the situation when  you have a fight  with more  than one
creature, you will treat them as one creature or you will have to fight
them one at a time.

Luck

At various times  during your adventure , either in battle  or when you
come across situations where  you could be unlucky  or lucky ( you will
learn about those at the actual places themselves ) , you may test your
luck to see if you are lucky . Beware that using your luck  can be very
dangerous because if you are unlucky it could be disastrous. When using
luck the computer will `roll two dice`. If the number that is rolled is
equal to or less than your luck score  then you are  lucky  and  things
will go in your favour. However if the number is greater than your luck
score then you`re unlucky and will be penalized.Everytime you test your
luck ( as the procedure is called) your luck score is decreased by one.
You will see that the more you use test your luck the more chance there
is of you failing.

Using luck in battles

Apart  from when  you are told you can  use luck  the option  is always
available when  you are in a battle . You do  this to see  if you  have
inflicted a more  severe wound which causes another 2 stamina points to
be subtracted from the creature . You do this  by using  test your luck
just like described before. If you are lucky then it is a bad wound and
an extra 2 stamina points are subtracted from the creature . If however
you are not lucky , the wound  turns out to be a graze  and therefore 1
stamina point  is returned  to the stamina  of the creature  so that it
only looses 1 stamina point for the hit.If you are wounded in a battle,
you can use test your luck to see if it was not a bad wound. If you are
lucky you manage  to avoid  any major damage  so you recieve  1 stamina
point back. If you are unlucky an extra stamina point is deducted.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Skill

Your skill will rarely change during the game  but occasionally you may
have your skill  increased by , for example , a Magic Weapon . Remember
that you can only carry one Magic Weapon so if you pick up Magic Weapon
with a  lower skill  bonus  your skill  will decrease . It may  also be
decreased by , for example , a spell . Your skill may  never exceed its
initial value  except  if stated otherwise . If you have  the Potion of
Skill covered later ) you can  drink it  to restore  your skill  to its
initial value at any time.

Stamina and Provisions

Your stamina  score will  change a lot  in the game as  you have  to do
battle with  creatures and  you have  to perform tasks . Your  backpack
contains enough provisions for 10 meals which  you can have at any time
except during battle . Eating a meal restores 4 stamina  and you lose 1
meal. Taking the Potion of Strength will give you  the stamina you lost
at any time.

Luck

Your luck score will sometimes increase  during your adventure when you
are very lucky. You have also heard that it goes down  when you have to
test your luck. Remember that as with skill and stamina your score will
almost never get bigger than its initial value. If you drink the Potion
of Fortune you get your luck`s  initial score  increased by 1 point and
your luck score  is restored to its new initial value.

Equipment

You start your adventure with the bare minimum but you may find and buy
things along the way. You have a sword and are leather armour. You have
a backpack  that  contains  your provisions and will hold anything  you
might pick up.

Potions

You may also take 1 bottle of Potion. The Potions available are :
1. Potion of Skill : restores skill.
2. Potion of Strength : restores stamina.
3. Potion of Fortune  : restores luck and adds 1 to initial value.

These potions can be taken once whenever you want except during battle.

Press q to quit.